Good afternoon, dear colleagues.
I am Oleg Bakstansky, a professor
at the Plekhanov Russian Academy
of Economics.
At the Plekhanov Academy, I teach MBA courses
on the topics of human resources management,
organizational management,
and the sociology of organizations.
Today we are going to talk about
the science of organizational behavior.
To a large extent this is a new discipline,
everyone has already encountered
it, and in the day-to-day activities
of your organisation we do something,
we undertake something,
we succeed in something,
we agree with something, we disagree
with something.
This or that production
conflicts arise, this or that
action.
That is, organizational behavior
is what surrounds us,
surrounds us in our constant
daily work activities.
Naturally, the problem
of organizational behavior
is quite an interesting and
extensive field of study.
And researchers pay quite a
lot of attention to this section.
As always, we can notice that organizational
behavior as a scientific
discipline has developed
abroad.
And it was only at the end of the
1990s that it gradually began to
receive realization, to attract
interest and to be present in
studies of domestic specialists,
or even more accurately,
domestic employers, firm owners
and businessmen came to the conclusion
that in order to raise the quality
of business, to improve their
business indicators and business
results, it was necessary to
use those developments that already
exist in this science, in order
to be able to respond to
the demands that are placed
on business, and to have the
opportunity in some or
other of the above-mentioned
fields of study.
We will study different aspects
of this discipline later on.
And today we will talk with you about
how the science of organization,
as the science of organizational
behavior, arose, how it has
developed, what its roots are,
what its related specialties
are, what its connections are,
and, accordingly, what it does
and what its usefulness is.
The first question before
us is, of course, what organizational
behavior is.
Here's the definition of the discipline,
because if we know the definition,
then it's pretty much
already clear what
this science is going to do.
As for definitions, there is no
unambiguous solution here either,
because there are many different
approaches, many authoritative
sources.
And, accordingly, each school sees
and studies the problems of
organizational behavior in its own way.
Since our task is to
get a general idea of what
organizational behavior
is, we will not go into
all sorts of arguments
about the nuances that
arise in the study of
human behavior in organizations.
We will settle with you
on a neutral definition, which
is very general, but at the same
time it covers all those aspects
that arise in the study of human
behavior in an organization.
And then, as we become
more familiar with the discipline,
we will go deeper and deeper into
it, respectively, and look
at all sorts of facets that
arise in this situation.
So, organizational behavior can
be defined as a certain area of
knowledge about how people behave
while in this or that organization,
and how the behavior of
people in this organization
affects, determines,
predetermines the results
of this organization.
Organizational behavior has
been considered by many
studies, but perhaps one of the
first most authoritative textbooks
on organizational behavior was
written by Francis Lutens, and
accordingly Lutens followed
a similar definition, in fact
he was the first to give such
a definition, and Lutens
believed that organizational
behavior is the science of
describing, explaining, predicting,
managing human behavior
in organizations.
What we need to point out
right away is that organizational
behavior is a science.
Which is inherent in
its own metalogical apparatus, which
we will talk to you about next.
Which is inherent in its
terminology, which is inherent in
its tradition.
And, accordingly, as any scientific
discipline, organizational
behavior must describe human
behavior in an organization,
explain human behavior in
an organization.
That is, to find out
those regularities, those laws that
govern that behavior, and to
predict how the person will behave
later in the organization,
how he will fit into the role,
into the mission of that organization,
how he will contribute
to the fulfillment of certain
tasks, what he will do
in the organization.
Will he really be that necessary
part, that necessary
element that will contribute
to the objectives of
the company.
Either he will be engaged in
either sabotage or he will
be neutral to the functional
responsibilities that are
entrusted to him.
It's essentially the same loyalty
problem that you have in a commercial
organization all the time.
So now let's try to look at
what disciplines of organizational
behavior interact with,
what results it uses, and,
accordingly, what general
principles, general
ideas, general concepts
it applies.
If we look at the totality
of social sciences, which are
to some extent related to human
behavior in an organization,
then first of all, of course,
we can single out the so-
called social sciences, social
disciplines, which study
how the social environment,
society, society affects
the individual, determines
his behavior.
Among the social sciences that
we can see on the slide, first
of all, of course, general
psychology can be mentioned
because in any organization,
there are always living people
with their emotions, their
cognitive cognitive mechanisms,
their affects, conflicts,
aggression, various
desires, various feelings.
And as far as the human being is
concerned, every living person is first
of all a certain subjective formation.
He thinks first of all not about his
work, but about the problems that
surround him, about the tasks
he needs to solve.
He thinks about the fact that he has quarreled
with someone, that he has quarreled with
someone, that he needs to pay back certain
debts, to do certain things.
And in this connection, his work
is only one part of his life.
This is why quite a lot of material has
already been accumulated in psychology,
which makes it possible to analyze and
understand different aspects of human behavior.
And, of course, organizational
behavior to a very large extent,
takes results from the
economics that exists in general
psychology.
But at the same time, it should
be noted that psychology itself
is a vast science, and it will
concentrate its attention on
different kinds of human activity
and behavior.
Psychology highlights such a large
section as social psychology.
What is social psychology
is a discipline that studies
human behavior in society, how
the human environment affects
individual human behavior, and
how a person changes the behavior
of the group in which
they are in.
What concerns social psychology,
this discipline has been around
for about two centuries,
and here again there are various
kinds of patterns, approaches
that allow us to describe
to some degree both human
behavior and the impact
of other people
on a person.
To understand what social roles
a person performs as a husband, a
boss, a subordinate, what social
functions he performs, what social
expectations are placed on him, what
social roles he can play, and
why a person seeks to occupy these
or those social roles, what
opportunities they give him.
And in this regard just this is a very
important section of the
same organizational behavior, because
what is a person's behavior in an organization?
We spend at least one third of
our lives at work.
And in this connection we
go to work not only to receive
money and provide our comfortable
life in the surrounding
society.
We go to work to gain prestige,
to win the attention
of others.
We go to work in order to build
a certain career ladder, we set
ourselves certain limits in order
to receive a new assignment,
in order to realize ourselves,
to find our field of applicability,
to realize certain
abilities.
Each of you who have come today
to hear about organizational
behavior has enough of your
own experience of working in
different organizations.
He knows perfectly well what he wants, how
he wants it.
But nevertheless, you want to
acquire new knowledge.
Again, knowing that this
new knowledge, new skills
will go a long way toward
making you more successful,
more empowered at your
job, more successful at
the functional tasks
that you face.
Tasks of management, tasks
of functioning, tasks of solving
these or those issues related
to your daily activities.
And accordingly, again, each
of you wants further career growth,
further promotion, because this,
on the one hand, is an increase
of your welfare, on the other
hand, this is an assessment
of the achievements that
you have made.
Any person is very much interested
in the fact that those actions that
he does, will be appreciated.
Because if we do something and
we don't get appropriate feedback,
we lose motivation in that
regard.
Why do we need to do
something and make this or that
effort if no one notices it
anyway?
This whole area of activity is
what is being studied,
analyzed, considered in social
psychology, and the relevant
knowledge is very much in
demand with regard to the
analysis and study of organizational
behavior.
In addition to social psychology,
psychology also deals with
such a section as work
psychology.
It has different names.
Engineering psychology,
environmental psychology,
industrial-organizational psychology.
It all depends on tradition.
In Russian tradition, this is
labor psychology.
In the foreign tradition, there is no
such concept.
Then all of the issues that are addressed
by this discipline fall under the
category
of industrial-organizational psychology.
How a person works, what
conditions contribute to the
quality of his work, what conditions
have a negative impact on
this work, how to furnish
the workplace for a person to
be successful in its functions,
what helps and what hinders,
how to arrange the tables?
What distance should a person have
from the computer?
How many people can be in
one room?
How do you favorably arrange people?
Everyone has his own isolated
room, or a modern office
style, when everyone is in sight
of each other.
There are pros, there are cons.
And these are all issues
that are considered
in work psychology,
because they greatly
influence and affect the
results that arise from
your functioning.
Beyond that, of great importance in
human relations psychology, and of
course, of great importance to a
proper understanding of organizational
behavior, is the ethics of
relationships.
People interact with each
other, and they interact
with each other according
to certain rules.
There are written rules, various
kinds of laws, requirements,
instructions which are prescribed,
which we read, which
we get acquainted with, sign for.
There are unwritten rules.
And unwritten, so-called
informal norms of communication
often play a much more important
role than written ones.
For informal relationships, this
is the relationship that arises
in the team between people.
After all, spending 8-10-12 hours
at work, who knows how, we are
not spending this time in
a vacuum, we are interacting
with other people, we are giving
them orders, we are getting the
information we need for
our future work.
And in this context it's
very important to build a relationship
with these people, how easy
and fast you will get the data
you need, how complete
the data will be, how formal
the data will be.
It all depends on what kind of
informal contacts, informal relationships
we have in place.
This is something that belongs
to the field of ethics, and usually
we don't pay much attention to
it, we very rarely focus our
thought on how we treat
others, how others treat us.
We usually take it for granted.
But nevertheless, it is worth noting
that here is the ethnic gradation
of relationships, it is the essential
point that either contributes
to the fact that we are happy
to come to work, or largely
hinders our performance, our
work, let us say, we do
not want to go to work in
the morning, and we go there
because we have to.
And naturally, we need to
hurry to finish our work hours
and leave the collective, the
society where we don't like to be.
Naturally, this attitude
has a rather negative
impact on the results
that we get.
Very close to this row of
attitudes is such a discipline as
cultural studies.
Of course, ethics and cultural
studies are quite related, because
cultural studies are those or
other cultural norms that we
carry out.
But then again, you can go to work
in different ways.
If it's hot outside, you can
come to work in a T-shirt, in shorts.
But this, of course, will
to a large extent not coincide
with those or other corporate
norms of behaviour, ways
of behaving, corporate perceptions.
Corporate perceptions are also
the embodiment of a certain
social culture.
If you work in a bank, if you work for
a prestigious insurance company,
they have their own style of dress
which you have to follow
regardless of whether it's convenient
or uncomfortable for you.
But there are certain norms
and you have to follow
these norms, it is useless
to ask why they are like that.
They are like that because
in this organization they are,
and if you want to be in this
organization, if you want to
develop in this organization,
if you want your career prospects
to grow in this organization,
you have to accept the culture
that is in this organization,
and not try to change
it.
The culture is built up over
a long period of time, and it's
not easy to change, either.
It's quite a bone structure.
People change, bosses change,
the buildings where the same organization
is located change, but the people
who work in that organization
remain.
And these people, they are the
carriers of those beloved cultural norms.
In terms of the social sciences,
we have looked at such elements
as general psychology, social
psychology, work psychology,
ethico-culturalism.
Naturally, we could also
talk about other social disciplines,
but it so happens that it is these
approaches that have the most
significant impact on organizational
behavior.
It is these disciplines that have accumulated
the necessary volume of facts,
the necessary regularities that
are used in the analysis of organizational
behavior and prove useful
for its understanding, for its
changes, for its correction, for
its modification.
This is what concerns the social
disciplines that are directly
related to organizational behavior.
Another discipline that also
has an impact on organizational
behavior is management
psychology.
Here is what concerns management psychology,
in fact, of course, it also belongs
to psychology, but because
of its importance, because
of its importance, because of its
tradition, it is singled out as
a separate direction, because any
organization is first of all
a hierarchy.
It is a hierarchy, in which there are different
levels of approaches, different levels
of connections.
Connections of one level are
horizontal hierarchy, connections of different
levels are vertical hierarchy, connections
of subordination, connections of management.
And since the entire organization
is people, this structure is
primarily held together by
psychological relationships.
So the discipline of management
psychology is a very important element
that is studied in many courses,
including MBI courses, and,
accordingly, when we talk about
organizational behavior,
it is very important for
us to keep in mind those
patterns that work on organizational
management.
How management is done, whether it's
authoritarian, and, accordingly, it doesn't
matter what you think, it doesn't matter
what you think.
You have been told what to do and how
to do it, and your initiative is irrelevant here.
You have to do what you are told.
That's one approach.
And these are approaches that
exist, including in many successful
organizations.
Moreover, with regard
to the authoritarian approach,
this is the approach that is
often very present in domestic
organizations.
And later on, we will talk about
this again in more detail.
There are other types of
management which take into account
your interests, your initiative.
Moreover, tasks are set for you, and
then you start to solve this task.
And you are not told how
to solve it.
This is your choice, your capabilities.
This also belongs to a democratic
style of management which
also delegates the
responsibility for various
acts you perform.
There are other styles of management.
And, as you understand, naturally,
organizational behavior will
be largely determined
by that management style,
by those psychological patterns
that will be present in terms
of management, that
are present in this organization,
and it is the psychological
basis of management that will
largely shape the organizational
behavior that exists
in the organization.
In any organization there
are the managers, the top
managers and the managed, those
own executives who work in that
organization, who have their
own section of executive
activity and who are responsible
for that section.
Naturally, these people, ordinary
employees, line workers, have
little chance, little
opportunity to influence
the entire organization
as such, simply because
their field of activity
is a very small area.
And so they are embedded here in this
system of hierarchy in the structures,
hierarchies that exist in the organization,
And they perform only those actions that
are required to be performed according
to the business plan of the company,
according to the organizational
structure of the company,
according to that management
style that exists in the company.
In this regard, in addition to management
psychology, a discipline such as sociology
of organization is of great
importance for analyzing organizational
behavior, for its understanding,
for its systematization.
Sociology is a science that deals
with the analysis of the social
aspects of human behavior.
But this is no longer an analysis of human
behavior as psychology, subjective
analyses of a person's desires,
motives, emotions, that is, what comes
from the individual.
Sociology comes from the group
a person is in, and, in fact, sociology
studies those tasks, patterns,
requirements that
the group places on the
individual.
Sociology is not interested, unlike
psychology, in what you think about
the organization, what your emotions
are, what your experiences are.
Sociology is only interested
in the external, or what are called
objective regularities
that the organization you
find yourself in imposes
on you.
In the later parts of our course,
we'll just be looking
at research methodology,
and psychological approaches,
and sociological approaches.
For now, it is important for us to understand
this very difference, that the sociology
of an organization is essentially
a list of the rigid requirements that
the organization imposes on you as
a member of that organization.
You chose the organization, you
came to work for it, but since
you chose it, you have to obey
those patterns, those corporate
ethics, that corporate culture,
those corporate norms, that
corporate hierarchy that exists
in that organization.
And consequently, depending on how
these relations are built,
the norms of organizational behavior
will change, the freedom of
those actions that you are allowed
to take, the degree of activity
that you are allowed to
be involved in.
The next block of disciplines that
is very closely connected
to organizational behavior is
managerial science.
What you see on the slide.
Again, what the management sciences
are concerned with is the field of management.
Naturally, we've talked to you about
this many times before, but as far
as management is concerned, there
are also several disciplines that
approach management from different
perspectives.
And naturally, each of these
perspectives has its own impact,
its own impact on organizational
behavior.
First of all, of course, is management
itself, the general science
of management.
What management styles exist in an
organization?
How does delegation of authority,
delegation of responsibility take place?
Who takes responsibility for the
decision being made?
Who takes responsibility for implementing
those decisions?
What is the degree of freedom, this
is the backlash that the employee
has in the degree of solving his problems?
How can he be subordinate?
What co-subordination exists.
These are all things that are addressed
in management courses, and what
you and I will look at further
in our course.
The next discipline that plays
an important, even in a sense,
also a determining influence
on organizational behavior
is, of course, marketing.
The study and analysis of the market.
For all those market laws that
are known in marketing are naturally
at work in organizational
behavior.
This market is not an abstraction.
The market is the action of the people
who are on this market, the action
of an organization which has
either a different or a different
market.
All those laws on the promotion
of goods, services which are known in
marketing, they naturally find
their manifestation and realization
in organizational behavior.
For it is precisely those people
when they are in the organization,
They also function, according to
these or those laws.
And the organization either achieves
certain heights on the market,
develops new niches, displaces competitors,
produces new products, or,
as they say, the organization
gradually comes to naught, the
death of the organization
occurs, its disbanding, absorption,
and another organization with
new laws of organizational
behavior, with new ethics,
with a new culture, new regularities,
new opportunities emerges.
The organization, again, does not exist
in a vacuum.
Well this is what I have already talked about,
which again, I want to draw your attention to.
An organization always exists
alongside other organizations.
People who are in one organization
act and function together
with people who are in
other organizations.
And this, too, is organizational behavior.
And here, too, are those marketing
regularities that need to be considered
and taken into account.
We have talked mostly about management
and marketing, about these sciences
of management.
But I constantly emphasize, I constantly
speak about the fact that the
organization is people.
So people are the staff of the organization.
In this regard, when we talk about
organizational behavior or when
we talk about organization, of
course, it's imperative
to talk about a discipline
like human resource management.
What human resource management
is about, it covers the whole range
of issues related to human
performance in an organization.
Personnel selection.
If a person, some organization starts
to work, he was found, he turned
out to meet the requirements,
those competencies that
are required for the
position he occupies.
And consequently, the person
was employed by that organization,
and then he begins to function
in that organization.
He begins to behave in
this organization in a certain way.
He behaves according to the requirements
that are imposed on him.
Behave in accordance with the function
that functions and operates.
And, accordingly, the selection
of personnel is the first
task that arises here for any
person who begins to work somewhere.
A person works in an organization, and
here, of course, you have to pay attention
as a training and development
of the person who is in the organization.
If you're good at something,
if you're a successful manager,
then naturally the organization
is interested in improving,
developing, focusing
those skills that are useful
to you, adding those skills
that you lack.
Building a career ladder, a
career learning structure are
all things that hunt too to this area.
In addition to developmental training, the
same organization will be in the business
of evaluating and motivating the person as an employee.
You can be put in the talent pool,
you can depend on that assessment,
on the evaluations that you get
in the organization, in
terms of solving certain tasks,
in terms of the assessments,
it determines that level of achievement,
that level of development that
you're going to have in
that particular organization.
That's the whole area that
goes into human resource management.
Well at the end of the day, we don't usually
talk about it, but it's the same personnel
business of production.
Sick days, vacations, business trips,
this is all organizational behavior, too.
Modern organizations
are quite mobile and mobile.
And a person can be sent on a business
trip, a person can fall ill.
All this, again, requires those
or other documentary forms.
And then, each of us, coming
to work, presents a
resume.
A resume is in a certain way
somehow confirmed your labor,
personnel successes that
you had.
This is all something that belongs to the field
of human resources management.
And when we talk about aggressive behavior,
then personnel management
is, perhaps, to the greatest extent
with all of its regularities,
with all of its possibilities,
incorporated into this organizational
behavior.
Very often there is even a dispute
between specialists in HR and specialists
in organizational behavior,
that in fact the HR-function
is the same organizational
behavior, and therefore one more
discipline does not make sense.
But due to the fact that we have
already talked about the links
of organizational behavior with various
social disciplines, we can still
see that these very links, which
arise with a large complex of psychological,
managerial, sociological,
organizational problems, testify
to the fact that organizational
behavior in its tasks,
goals and solved problems
is much broader
than personnel management.
Moreover, we can even say that
the field of HR, it is largely
included in organizational
behavior.
In modern management, there
is such a concept as organization
theory.
After all, the same organizations come
in different forms.
An industrial organization,
a service organization, organizations
that are related to the performance
of certain functions.
There are different types of organizations.
And naturally, each of these organizations,
if it has a different type, a different
scope, has its own organizational
behavior, its own goals,
its own tasks, its own approaches.
And of course if we want to understand,
to analyze the organizational
behavior that emerges in this
or that sphere, it is essential for
us to understand what kind
of organization a person
is in, what kind of organizations
we are talking about.
Again I draw your attention, it makes
no sense to talk about organizations
in general, about the market in general.
Organizational behavior is a
significant specific discipline.
It deals with the analysis of the behavior
of concrete living people in this or
that organization.
It applies the general scientific
laws that have been discovered in
this or that field to the analysis
of human actions in the
organization where he is.
Again, there are many managerial
sciences, and we talked about management,
marketing, personnel management,
organization theory, just
as in the analysis of the social
branch, these are far from
all sciences, but traditionally
it so happened that organizational
behavior is largely
based on them.
The only other thing that is important
to mention, and to which one should pay
attention, is the area of innovation
management, which is currently developing
very strongly and successfully.
Naturally, as far as innovations
are concerned, they came to us
from the Western tradition, because,
after all, business there is
much more actively developed and
on much higher quality
aspects than in Russia, and
I think there is nothing surprising
in that.
So, as for the Western
management, they paid attention
to the fact that a great number
of modern organizations,
huge investments are
made in innovations.
It is significantly connected with the
development of information structures, with
the development of computer structures,
with the development of virtual
organizations, which we will
talk about later.
So innovations, they just imply
the process of constant changes.
It used to be that there was an organization,
you came to this organization,
you worked in it until you retired,
and nothing changed.
That was characteristic of
the 1960s, 1970s, even 1980s,
when there were quite certain
norms and attitudes in organizations
that practically
didn't change.
People were changing, but the
functions were the same.
Today we live in an era of
constant change.
New commercial areas are emerging,
new areas of business are emerging.
And, accordingly, a different
number of innovations are constantly
being introduced, which must
be applied if you want to defend
your market niche, at least, or
expand that niche accordingly.
It is in this connection that different
innovative enterprises and venture
companies are being developed
more and more.
Today no one can say which
sphere, which part of the
market will largely prevail
tomorrow.
Analysts are fighting over it, but
if everything were that simple,
we would not be witnesses
of constant innovations, which arise.
Constant creation of new
structures, new organizations,
new approaches, new
tasks.
That's why great importance
is now given to innovations
in the same management.
And from the whole management as a
theory of management,
the Innovation management as
the management of innovations,
management of those new
alternatives, new approaches, new
elaborations, which exist, stood out.
Today the one who was the
first who was able to develop
any innovative idea, he wins,
he is ahead of competitors,
he makes profit.
Innovation management is
very risky management.
But if you realized this risk, if
this risk is realized, then
accordingly you get a very
good return, a very good
return on your investment.
Of course, if we talk about
risky behavior, it puts very
strict requirements on the
behavior of those people who
are in organizations.
You now have to know that either the
organization in question, and hence
you in that organization, will be successful
and get results, profit and so on,
or the organization will be
forced, will go bankrupt, and of
course this will also affect your
development, your career to a
large extent.
So these innovations now have
a very, very strong influence
on organizational behavior
and they are a very good indicator
of how progressive that
behavior is, organizational
behavior or how
stable, standard,
schematic it is.
Modern organizational behavior
and modern management require
a departure from the
old, time-proven, schema.
Today if you want to succeed in
business you have to be able to take risks.
And so there are certain criteria,
certain requirements which are
imposed on you, on the person
who is in the organization
and behaves in a certain way
in that organization.
We have now looked at those basic
scientific disciplines, those basic
industries that have a direct
output, a direct impact, a
direct impact on organizational
behavior.
Again, I want to say that, of
course, you can name others as well.
And, of course, depending on who's
in what field, the disciplines
that I've named
may be present here.
A lot of it has to do with IT technology.
Again, it has to do with telecommunications.
So these are the disciplines that
are developing right now.
But if you refer to
organizational behavior as a kind
of already existing scientific
discipline, then you and I have just
looked at the main points with
which it is connected, with other
sciences, the advances that it
uses, the results of which it takes,
the laws of which have
to be considered in order
to organize effective organizational
behavior within the organization
that exists.
Again, it is immediately apparent
that organizational behavior is a fundamentally
interdisciplinary field of
knowledge.
It is pointless to argue here which
is more important, the general psychological
pattern or the marketing pattern,
or, on the contrary, only on innovation
management because of its importance
at the present moment.
If we want to have a comprehensive,
holistic understanding of human behavior
in an organization, the functioning
of the organization itself,
we need to take into account at
least all of these disciplines,
all of the results that we
have already talked about.
On the one hand, this interdisciplinarity
is a very progressive
element; on the other hand,
it leads to the fact that researchers
are usually fixed on one
aspect, and so it turns
out that their analysis of implementation
behavior goes in this
or that key.
This is especially common in Western
studies as well as in Russian ones.
There are now a large number
of textbooks, including those that
are recommended to you, you have
received the appropriate materials,
but still we must keep in mind that
each textbook is written by one
or another author, or a team
of authors who are more successful
in a particular direction.
In this regard, of all the
textbooks that exist,
there are some classic ones.
In particular, this is a textbook by
Francis Lutens on organizational behavior.
It really is a classic.
And if you want to know how
organizational behavior
was formed, why it lasted,
and to know the general approaches
that exist to it, you
have to go to it.
But it's a textbook, after all, that came
out 20 years ago.
Of course, it will not be able to reflect
all the innovations, so here we need
to insert already more modern
textbooks, but again, remember
it is the fundamental interdisciplinarity
of organizational
behavior, and, accordingly,
do not try to look for answers
to your questions only in one
or another discipline.
Let us now briefly review the
history of the discipline of
organizational behavior.
Surprisingly enough,
organizational behavior has
a history of over 100 years.
The first studies of organizational behavior,
not yet naturally so named, began
in the late nineteenth and early twentieth
centuries.
This was largely due to the
fact that there was industrial
growth, new factories, plants,
a stage of industrial development,
the end of the nineteenth
century.
And, accordingly, a great
number of people were included
in this industrial production.
Of course, at that time,
a person's job was to stand
at a machine, or you stood
at some other mechanism,
and your task was
to reproduce these
or those actions,
to make the mechanism
work.
The fact that the end of the XIX century,
and in general the formation of industrial
production was largely associated
with advances in technology, mechanics.
New machines, new devices, new
machines were created, which
were connected both with the
gasoline engine, and with
the internal combustion
engine, as they developed
further, and in this situation,
man was regarded as a principal
adjunct to this mechanism.
Here is a very important approach.
In principle, it was with this
approach, or rather, not agreeing with
it, that the analysis of
organizational behavior began.
The end of the 19th century, the industrial
revolution, the development of those either on
their production, but the factories, and the main
influence, the main importance in them was
given precisely to devices, precisely to mechanisms,
precisely to machinery.
Man was not simply a service
mechanism; he was seen
as the same part of technology.
And if machinery was
reliable, well-equipped,
invested in, then man was
the weakest part of
technical progress.
He got tired, he made mistakes, he
had to be interrupted, he had
to be fed, he had to be trained.
After all, that man could break
an expensive machine.
And if that or our tank cost a
lot of money and had to be
bought, the man could always be
easily replaced.
If you can't work, then it wasn't
a question of if you wanted to.
If you can't work, I'll find
someone who can work and put
him on that machine.
If he makes mistakes, I will
change him and find someone else
who makes fewer mistakes, and so on.
That's the situation that arose.
In this case it was a question of
the man being a traitor to the machine.
And that was the prevailing view of
the late nineteenth century, early
twentieth century.
It is worth mentioning here such
a man as Frederick Winslot Taylor.
The thing about Taylor is that he
was just thinking about this question.
What is man's place in this
industrial production?
Is man really
just a certain trait
to operate the machine.
Taylor began to investigate the behavior
of the workers, at the time he had
no problem because no one was asking
for these workers' consent, their wishes,
and yes, let's just say he wasn't
really distracting them, he was just
observing how they worked, when
they made mistakes, when they
began to get tired.
He was the process of working, he was the observer.
And, accordingly, Taylor drew
attention to the fact that the
person working on the machine
was not such an
auxiliary element.
Moreover, he observed that
the success, the efficiency
of any particular machine,
any particular mechanism,
depends largely on how
the man works with that machine.
How he likes to work, how he dislikes
to work.
How motivated he is to work with that
machine.
In addition, Taylor drew attention
to another aspect.
Depending on what kind of
workload on a person, how much
time he works, the number
of errors increases.
And, accordingly, just by purely
empirical way he drew attention
to the fact that if a person works a
certain amount of time, I'll
replace him with another person,
so that the first one has a rest,
then the number of errors decreases,
as long as the person has
an opportunity to rest.
The person, as they call it, takes a breather.
And after he goes
back to work on his machine,
his mechanism,
his productivity increases.
And then Taylor simply began
to make all sorts of experiments,
in order to grasp how much
time it is desirable for a
man to work in order not
to commit all sorts of mistakes.
Those studies that Taylor conducted,
and let only he published them,
got the name, and now widely
known, as the scientific
organization of work.
And with the name of Frederick Taylor is
precisely the creation of this concept
of scientific organization of labor.
This concept has already proceeded
from the premise that man cannot
and should not be viewed simply as
a traitor to some system.
It is not a traitor, it is a defining
element, a defining mechanism,
whose functioning largely
determines the efficiency,
the quantitative output that
results from the work of
this or that machine.
Taylor proposed a number of effective
measures which helped to
increase labor productivity.
Naturally, he faced the same
problem.
There is a machine, there is
a man working on that machine, but
he was interested, and he was not so
much interested in making the man
work well, he was interested in a
pure business problem.
The machine can produce, roughly
speaking, 100 parts.
Because of the fact that there is a man
working on the machine, who gets tired,
out of these 100 parts you get 20, 30,
40 rejects.
So the machine produces
60 parts.
How do you make sure that
the capacity of the machine, these
100 parts, they were 100 parts
in a working day?
That's the question Taylor was solving,
and in this connection he came
to the conclusion, in order for a machine
tool to work at its full
efficiency, it is necessary
to provide a person working on this
machine with certain working
conditions.
It was Taylor the First who introduced
such a procedure called timekeeping.
He stood with a stopwatch and measured
how much time passed, until the
man began to get tired, how much
time it took a person to perform
one operation, another operation,
a third operation, how easily
a person could switch
to perform these or those
operations.
And, of course, a person did not work
alone, because if we take a
manufactory, there were several machines.
Each successive one worked on a part
that had been made by the previous one.
And here again a situation
arose which is also very often
found in modern factories.
There were very many pieces,
excess of them, which could
not be processed on other
machines.
There were more complicated operations,
more time was required for machining,
and, accordingly, the problem
arose of an overabundance of some
parts and a shortage of other parts.
As a result, the production schedule was
not followed, and the machines worked at
odds with each other.
It was the introduction
of timing that made it
possible to synchronize
production of one
part or another.
After all, it was possible to take
different numbers of machines so that
all parts were in continuous production.
There was no assembly line yet, but it
was thanks to Taylor that timekeeping,
the timing of working hours,
was first spoken of.
In fact, it was this timekeeping
that was the precursor to later
assembly-line production.
But, of course, Taylor did
not limit himself to timekeeping.
This is his idea of timekeeping, which,
among other things, has its development
today in what are known as
photographs of working time, photographs
of the workplace.
When it is written down by the time
stage of the employee's performance
of this or that activity during his
working day, during those or other
tasks that he is solving,
all this comes from Taylor.
But the same Taylor drew attention
to another aspect.
In order for a worker to work effectively
on this or that machine, he
must understand what to do.
That is, roughly speaking, which button
to push, when to push it,
and, accordingly, how hard to push it.
It was Taylor who drew attention
to the fact that, in fact.
It is precisely because the worker
does not quite understand the technique
of the machine mechanism, the machine control,
that a large number of defects occur.
What is experience according to Taylor?
According to Taylor, experience is that
an experienced worker already knows
where to stand, which side to stand on,
how to hold the part, and
therefore he will not commit
a huge number of defects.
As a result, Taylor initiated
the creation of so-
called instruction cards.
Cards that had written instructions,
step by step, step-by-step instructions
of what to do, how, when,
and in what order.
And, accordingly, when a new worker
came to work on this or that
machine, he would study
those instructions beforehand.
Again, today we know very well,
and it persists.
It's essentially a safety technique.
Just as now we sign for safety
procedures, though we sign without
reading them, so back then
the worker studied the
instruction card.
And if now, after you studied it,
after you asked all the questions,
after you understood what to do,
you did the defect, then it was your
own fault, and, accordingly,
you were fined and sanctioned.
And you yourself understood that
it was really your fault, because you
didn't comply with something, you did
something in the wrong way, or in some other way.
So the instructional cards that
Taylor introduced, they, again,
still have this or that existence today.
And not without reason, when you buy
any complex device, a computer, a camera,
a video camera, to Taylor, he always
has an instruction card for the activity.
This, again, is something that goes back to
Taylor by the late 19th century.
The same Taylor drew attention
to the following fact.
Machines are different,
and naturally, when a worker
works on the same machine, eventually
he gets bored with that machine.
It is because man is not
a machine that the same
Taylor pointed out.
The fact is that man constantly wants
some kind of novelty.
And so, if you learned to work
well on one machine, the factory
owners used to leave you
on that machine.
Why would he take someone else, you're already
successfully working on that machine,
you already know what to do and how
to do it.
But Taylor pointed out that if
you work very long hours, you lose
interest in working on that
machine.
Your attention dulls, and you start
getting defective again.
That's such a protoxic situation.
If you don't know how to do it, understandably,
you're learning, so it's a marriage,
but you already know everything,
you do everything with your
eyes closed, and you still get
a marriage.
And it was Traylor who formulated
the problem as worker retraining.
And, of course, back then psychology
wasn't as developed and there weren't
the terms that there are now.
And, of course, Taylor wasn't
talking about any career development,
but the idea was simple, and the
idea was the same as building
a modern career tree.
You've successfully learned to work
on one machine, but you
AND naturally want to develop further.
If only because working on
another machine pays more.
If only a material incentive.
Taylor had only material incentives.
Taylor did not offer non-material
incentives at that time.
Although, a little later on, the
rudiments of non-material
incentives were also suggested by Taylor.
Correspondingly, you want to move
to another machine, you will have
renewed interest, you will have
renewed concentration.
And so the same retraining
that you do, it can be successful
because it will be
an incentive to your
work.
Once you've mastered one machine, you
can move on to the next machine.
And if a worker knew that he had
a job prospect, that if a
machine was replaced, it didn't
mean that you'd be out the factory
gates and you'd be mastering
another machine.
It was in his best interest, and his
motivation to work increased.
When Taylor proposed the idea
of retraining, it was not
received with enthusiasm,
naturally, because retraining
is, again, an investment.
But then it turned out, and the
factory owners, the shipyard
owners saw this, that this change
in attitude to the workers, it would
be very effective in maximizing
the efficiency of the equipment
with which they worked.
Taylor drew attention again to the
next step, that when the work
takes place in this factory, in the
manufactory, then another very
important structural element
has to be included, the planning
bureau.
The work shouldn't go like this, you've
got so many parts, you've got so many
parts, and then we'll figure it out from there.
The work must be planned.
There has to be a plan of how many
parts, how many blanks to make.
It must be planned how many of these
or that kind of part after
each machine to be able to plan what,
the amount of work during the working
day, how many pieces will
be made, how efficient these
pieces will be, what the relationship
should be between the delivery
of new pieces and the dispatch
of finished results,
and so on.
Work planning is again associated with
the name of Taylor, and in fact just
very often it is planning
that is often cited as one of
his most important accomplishments.
Although, of course, it is pointless
to argue which of these elements
seemed more or less important.
Today we, again, understand very
well that all of the things we
are talking about are used in
the daily activities of any company.
But in addition to planning these
objective indicators, Taylor pointed
out that the social condition
of workers also plays a role
in the quality of work.
If a worker knows that his children
are looked after while he is working,
then, accordingly, his thoughts
will not be scattered to something
else, and he will be able
to concentrate all his efforts
directly on work.
So, as I said, although Taylor
did not deal directly
with the intangible stimulus,
the ideas were laid out here.
Taylor emphasized that if we
engage in collecting socially
meaningful information about that
particular worker, about
that particular social
group, and promote meaningful
social needs of the worker,
then he will perform better.
Naturally, this idea was later applied
very widely, especially in the
next stage of the development
of organizational research,
which we will discuss
a little later.
In addition to these measures,
which, in fact, constituted the scientific
organization of labor, Taylor was one of
the first to explain scientifically
such a phenomenon, characteristic of
industrial production at the end
of the XIX century, as restrictionism.
The point is that workers had certain
standards of production.
And, naturally, the workers
were interested in keeping these
norms low.
That is, they deliberately
limited the output of certain
products, always finding a lot
of objective reasons.
Taylor was just pointing out
that if we provide timing, instruction
cards, work scheduling,
then we will have the data
to say that we can actually increase
the rate of production here,
and this increase will
be absolutely correct and
not be a further exploitation
of the survival
of the runoff
workers.
And if we provide social support
for the worker, as it is now called,
then in gratitude for the
fact that the owner cares not
only about his profits,
but also about his family and
his children, he will be interested
in working better and producing
more.
In this way, the problem
of restrictionism, which confronted
industry in the late 19th century,
which had been battled over
in various ways, was solved scientifically.
Moreover, when he substantiated
all this, and when, accordingly,
appropriate measures were taken,
the principles of scientific
organization of labor he proposed
were introduced, then indeed
the phenomenon of restrictionism
gradually began to come
down.
Well of course, within certain limits,
but nevertheless this problem was
also deprived by Taylor.
Again, Taylor had followers,
there were predecessors,
but here are the results that
were obtained at this time, they
led to the creation of the
classical model of organization,
and accordingly the classical
model of organizational
behavior, which was developed
and created by Henri
Fayle.
Again, of course, it was not only
Fayele who had a hand in this,
but in his works it was well structured,
and accordingly, the classical
model of organization,
it correlates with
Henri Fayele.
As far as Fayele and as far as the classical
model is concerned, there are
four principled approaches that
have characterized organizational
behavior in the late 19th,
early 20th century.
First of all, the first
point is that there was a rigid
division of labor.
The worker worked on the same
machine, the work on the same machine.
Some workers handled parts,
others handled them, others
did other work, and still
others carried parts.
But the main thing here was that there was
a narrow specialization.
Everyone had to do a certain
part, a certain element
in the work.
To a large extent this was precisely
what came into play under the influence
of Taylor's scientific organization
of labor.
The second important element
of the classical model is that there
are certain commands and
orders that are passed from the
top down, and only from the
top down.
There is a supervisor who knows what
you have to do, how you have to do
it, when you have to do it.
If you succeed, if you fail, that's
your problem.
You have to fulfill those prescriptions,
you have to fulfill those functions
that are assigned to you,
that are passed down to you.
In this connection, the third point of
the classical model, the one-man rule,
the existence of a single commander,
was very important.
This consensus was called
one boss.
The simple fact is that
if more than one boss
appears, they can often
give different orders.
And that will introduce a certain amount of confusion.
I'll always cite, that boss
told me to do this, and you told me
to do the other thing now,
so you figure out amongst yourselves
who's going to do what.
I got the instruction, I did.
Well, which instruction was more important,
that's not my problem, as they say.
The commands come from the top.
And in this way it turned out that
the worker was not interested in improvement,
in optimization of work and labor.
And another important
element of the classical
model of organizational
behavior was the so-called range
of control.
There was a limited number of
subordinates of a given leader.
And, accordingly, even if the actions
of those subordinates overlapped
with the actions of other workers, you,
as the leader of those particular
subordinates, had no right to interfere
with the work of those who were
not within your sphere of influence.
It was a rigid mechanical model.
One leader, this leader's subordinates,
a rigidly circumscribed sphere
of your interests, a rigidly
circumscribed sphere of your
enterprise, where you work
and where you do things.
Naturally, this model of
gradational behavior was very rigid
and did not allow for any backlash
from the executive.
There are instructions, there is work.
As far as the managers were concerned,
there was also a rigid hierarchy,
and this rigid hierarchy led to
the fact that everyone knew what
to do, and everyone knew what he
was responsible for.
It was always possible to identify
at what element and at what stage a
failure occurred, and to find the culprit,
who could be punished.
This rigid hierarchy, it introduced
the function that professionals
had to work in every field,
and it was always possible to find
out who made the mistake that caused
the defect in the overall work.
In principle, as far as this
model is concerned, this model
of research existed somewhere,
well, perhaps until
the 1920s.
And it was only in the 1920s that
this model became necessary, not even
in the sense that it was
necessary, but it became clear
that this model had exhausted itself.
Naturally, to a great extent this
happened due to the fact that production
was developing, science
was developing, new equipment
was appearing, new machines
were appearing, new aggregates
were appearing, and more and
more workers were stuck to
maintaining one machine.
So the problem was that
this maintenance required
a lot of initiative.
And it was initiative that would
not be rigidly declared, simply
because sometimes a worker with
extensive experience on certain
kinds of machines might be
more competent than the
supervisor above him, who
was giving him instructions.
The worker might know that if a
given machine worked at the same
load, at the same speed, then after
a while the cutter would go bad, the
chisel would break or the worker
knew this from his own experience,
but of course nobody listened to
him simply because he was the
worker and it was the supervisor.
As the equipment became more and
more complex, as more and more
new equipment appeared, as more
and more new connections emerged,
as industry developed, as industry
developed, the problem
arose that the classical model
of organizational behavior, which
had been introduced, which had
been substantiated, which
had been cradled by Taylor,
by Fayol, by other authorities,
needed at least a modification.
And, as always,
a significant contributor to
this modification was, again, the
scientific experiments that were conducted
in the late '20s, respectively, formally
they lasted from 1927 to 1932,
these experiments that were
conducted in the town
of Hawthorne at the Western
Digital plant.
Usually these experiments, now
called the Hawthorne experiments,
are associated with
the name of Elton Mayo.
But in fact, a whole group
of authors were involved in this
experiment.
Which included Fries, Rettlisberger,
Elton Mayo, William, Dixon, and others.
When these experiments were
carried out, the main idea
that came out of them was that
in addition to these objective characteristics,
which must be taken into account,
which are considered in the
classical model, it is necessary
to take into account informal
relationships, informal
ways of organizing within
work teams.
And if the organizational behavior
of the classical period, of the
Taylor period, it was still
formal organizational behavior,
it was necessary to identify
those modes of action that
exist, that hierarchy of
relationships that exist.
That hierarchy of commands, that function
of authority that exists, and you
were not to deviate in any
way from those characteristics.
The Hatonn experiments drew
attention to the fact that
the informal attitude,
the informal interaction of people
in the whole team has a very
significant impact on
the end result.
Again, there was nothing new
here, because, as you and I just
mentioned, Taylor had already
drawn attention to this, but
Taylor just didn't emphasize it.
The main thing for Taylor, after all, was
to formalize this or that relationship.
That's right, up to the 1920s,
up to the 20-30s this is the
classical Fayol model that
we've been talking about.
But in 1927 in Hawthorne, the owners
of the Western Digital
plant were interested in
how to increase the productivity of
their workers.
As far as the workers were concerned,
they were mostly women.
The plant, basically the engine, was
in the business of assembling electric rolls.
As for assembling the roles, it
was a rather pedantic and
meticulous job, because the role
had certain elements that had
to be connected in a certain
way, put together, and the
role itself included about
13 elements.
Naturally, the person who was
assembling the trillet
gradually got tired, he had
mistakes, and, accordingly,
the final trillet was
defective.
Again the same old task
arose.
I need a certain amount
of trillet output, and
I get a lot of rejects.
How to get rid of this scrap?
All previously carried out approaches
of classical model, Taylor, Fayol,
they gave a certain result,
but nevertheless, this result
alone did not suit the owners
of the plant.
And accordingly, the owners
turned to Rettlisberger, Mayo
Dixon to the scientists in order
to explain, give their
recommendations on how to reduce
the number of defects
and increase labor
productivity.
Mayo approached the matter, again,
from an experimental point of view.
A group of female
workers was assigned
to collect this role.
They were put in a separate room,
and then they began to experiment on them.
And what concerns this experiment,
the experiments were, shall
we say, quite extensive.
We, his staff, monitored completely
the behavior of the girls during
the workday, what they did,
how they did it, when they interrupted,
when they ate lunch.
They monitored what they ate, how
they ate.
What's more, later on we widened
the scope of interest and began
to wonder what girls do outside
of work hours, even to the point
of measuring, as ridiculous as
it is, girls' sleeping hours, how
much they sleep, and how much
of this sleeping time is
significant in terms of mistakes,
in terms of marriage.
How much time do girls have to work
so that marriage doesn't show up?
How often do they need to take these or
those breaks?
Naturally, initially Rhett Lisberger,
May Dixon, they went in the
vein of Taylor and just did
timing, made instruction
cards, enumerated
operations, engaged
in teaching girls behavior.
And then they began to analyze the
external conditions of work, what
a little later Heisberger would
call the hygienic factors of work.
They were interested in what the
lighting should be, what the noise
level should be, what kind of
room the girls should be in,
how far apart they should sit,
how far they should stretch
to get the finished piece, how
tired they were from this, and
so on.
We studied lighting conditions,
time-work conditions,
lunch-break conditions,
time conditions, how long
it took to pick up
a tool, pick up a part,
and so on.
Accordingly, it was these external
factors that were changing, and
Mayo and the authors noticed
that some change corresponded
to an increase in productivity,
some worsened it.
These were factors related to
production, what Taylor was doing.
And then Rettlisberger, Mayo, and
Dixon decided to introduce these very
social elements.
The girls began to receive meals from the
factory, that is, they no longer
brought food with them as they had
done before.
They started getting hot
meals, hot lunches.
During the breaks they received buns,
milk, something else.
And they did not get it at their own expense,
it was at the employer's expense.
Accordingly, if a girl was
tired, she could interrupt her work,
rest, not according to the
time you were supposed
to, for example, two hours of
work, 10 minutes to rest.
Here you feel like you're tired now.
You interrupt, have a little
rest, and then continue your
work.
That is, gradually, they allowed the
subjective needs of the girls to manifest
themselves, that is, they themselves
regulate these or other conditions
of work.
And the researchers noticed that
productivity has increased
dramatically.
The researchers conducted everything
as it should be.
There was a group of girls
or an experimental group they
worked on.
There was a control group that was
working under normal conditions
for that Western Digital plant, assembling
the same relays.
And naturally, the researchers
noticed that productivity began
to increase dramatically.
It was a dramatic increase.
Naturally, this was reflected,
especially, again, note, these
experiments lasted 5 years,
and as for those 5 years, it
was quite a difficult time
for America, it was the
time of the Great Depression.
And yet, all the same, money was given
to Litwinningram and her to
allocate the experiments.
So, the researchers noticed,
productivity, the more attentive
you were to the female workers,
the more interested you were
in their work, their
productivity increased.
And then the researchers, after looking
at ways to increase labor productivity,
asked themselves a second question.
Now how do we reduce these
costs?
And they started slowly depriving the
girls of what they were used to.
Lunch, buns, reduced rest time,
reduced lighting conditions,
increased the noise conditions,
because, of course, it
was a specific task, set
by the owners, to find
the best conditions.
That's what they were doing.
And here the most interesting
paradox happened.
The girls who were, shall we say, used
to paradisiacal working conditions.
They were paradisiacal compared
to how other female workers in the
same factory worked.
After all these conditions
began to be abolished,
labor productivity
hardly dropped.
Now this was a completely incomprehensible thing.
It went completely against
the classics, the same Taylor
Fayolly had a huge amount
of evidence that if I change
the working conditions,
it affects productivity.
There was a clear deterioration
in working conditions,
and yet productivity hardly dropped.
Moreover, well, let's just say, maybe
from an ethical point of view, those
experiments that Red Lisbergellar, Mayo
Dixon produced would be criticized
now because they were, I should say,
so unethical, but let's just
say that first the girls are promoted
to good things and then they
start depriving them of that.
But then Mayo did get
interested, and until when can I
worsen these conditions of
labor so that the productivity
of labor It does fall, because
he got interested again.
According to the classical model, they
should be falling, but they're not.
He had already started to make them significantly worse.
The girls were working almost in semi-darkness.
Naturally, this had a negative
effect on their vision.
It was going down, but her productivity
was not going down significantly.
She was in this group of girls who
were already working in conditions
worse than other workers in the
factory, almost in semi-darkness.
Naturally, this was not the case in the factory.
The productivity of this
group was still higher than
that of the girls in the
control group.
Well, naturally, the researchers were interested.
So what's going on?
They were interested in everything
naturally from a scientific point of view.
After all, this was a refutation
of the paradigm, the paradigm of classical
labor organization.
And these were facts from which there
was no escaping.
The girls who were used to working
in semi-darkness, who were used to working
in perfect light, noise was added, other
disturbances were added.
Work productivity was still
higher.
Yes, it certainly dropped
compared to what these same girls
had before.
But it still didn't drop
so much that the girls could
be fired and therefore
recruited.
Rrth Lisberger, Mayu Dixon,
and the others next I worked
with wondered what the
reason was.
Naturally, they were interested in this
from a scientific point of view, and it
was then that they turned their
attention to what might be keeping
the girls in these already hellish
working conditions.
And, since Mayo and Dixon were
psychologists, they suddenly
noticed that girls tend
to stick together, they
are interested in being
with each other.
Yes, and working conditions worsened,
yes, the lighting worsened, but
it was interesting for them to
talk to each other during this work,
criticize and scold these bad
researchers, because of whom
we lose our eyesight.
They had an inner understanding,
an inner unity.
They formed a kind of
close-knit group.
This situation was completely unexpected
and ran completely counter to the
classics.
It turned out that all these external conditions,
of course, they are important, but, nevertheless,
they are not the only ones.
In addition to them, there is another factor.
The factor of human relations,
or this informal attitude.
These are all the things we talked
about, about the ethics of relations in
the beginning, about the culture of relations.
And this factor, this factor
of informal relations that exist
within the group is so
important and so strong that
it is able to suppress all
external objective negatives.
And we based it on... What
concerns the Hutter
experiments, a great number
of results were formed on their basis.
They gave rise to the development
of all of social psychology,
all of industrial-organizational
psychology, all of those
very disciplines that
we spoke about at the
very beginning.
It was Mayo who formulated the
doctrine of human relations on the
basis of these experiments.
He was the first to formulate this
doctrine in management, in
the manager as such.
What Mayo did was to point
out that in addition to all
those points that are very
well covered in the classical
model, we should also consider
such an element as these
subjective human essence,
these human relations.
Because these human relations
have no less of an influence
on the result of production
than all the objective factors.
What concerns the doctrine of
human relations, at first it was not
accepted, a lot of business owners
were against it, because they
thought it was just another blasphemy
of scientists, whose goal was to
conduct this or that research, and,
accordingly, they were not
interested in commerce itself,
they were interested in their own
interests.
But what concerns Majori, Lisberg,
Dixon, their followers,
their collaborators, they showed
that it is possible to treat their
ideas, these informal relations,
and the doctrine of human relations
itself in different ways.
However, if you take it into account,
there is a sharp increase
in labor productivity.
This has been proven
experimentally, and there is no getting
away from it.
As far as businessmen are concerned,
they are people of facts, and
when they are shown the facts, they
accept them.
What is the doctrine
of human relations, as it
was formulated by mine, as
it was formulated by
my followers, and, accordingly,
as it is formulated
now.
The main fact is that man
is a full-fledged and equally
important element of production.
And if we want to understand, to
understand why production functions
successfully or unsuccessfully, why
we are either ahead of our
competitors or not ahead of them,
we must take this very human factor
into account.
There is a lot of talk about
this now, but the very notion
of the human factor, in fact, was
introduced by her inspiration
of human relations.
It came from the fact
that man is a social being.
Again, this was obvious to
him, being a psychologist, he
naturally knew this.
But the important thing was that
as a social being, man is oriented
toward other people, and his organizational
behavior, that is, his work,
his behavior in the organization,
is included in the context
of group behavior.
If we want to understand how a person
works, we must first of all study
the group of people in which he
is located.
This is the group
of his immediate environment or the
primary group.
After her, the massive study
of primary groups began.
There are many researchers here,
for example, Charles Cooley, other authors.
But the main factor from our point of
view, from the point of view of the
pattern of behavior, was that a person's
behavior in an organization
is not determined by his individual
psychological characteristics alone,
but is determined by the behavior
of the group in which he is
included.
We have drawn attention to the fact that
the behavior of the individual as such and the
behavior of the individual in the group are
two great differences, as they are called.
And, therefore, if we are looking
at organizational behavior, which
is the behavior of large groups
of people engaged in an organization,
then we need to study not only
and not so much the behavior
of a single person, what Taylor
was doing, in fact, what
Fayol was talking about.
We must first look at group behavior,
group norms, group values, and it
is these group norms and values,
they are precisely then that
will be accepted by the individual,
perceived, and will be realized
by his behavior.
Not his norms and values, which is very
important, but the group norms and values.
The correlation of individual
norms and group values
is a separate problem that
exists in social psychology.
Many regularities have
been found out there, and, naturally,
the theory of organizational behavior
studies and takes these regularities.
This is the area that is taken
from social psychology in
the theory of aggressive behavior.
But this is the first and important
aspect when the emphasis is placed
first on human relations,
the human factor, and then on the
group factor.
The next thing that Mayow drew attention
to with his doctrine of human relations
is that, and this again was obtained
experimentally during his
Hatong experiments, human nature
appears to be incompatible
with the rigid hierarchy
and bureaucracy of subordination
that is found in organizations.
Man can be forced to perform
certain actions,
certain factors, but he
will tend not to do them,
and he will consciously
sabotage certain actions,
which will manifest
itself in marriage, affecting
labor productivity and
the effects that arise
here.